#INTERACTING WITH PATTERNS: SYNTHESIZING A TOOL USED FOR    ANALYTIC AND PREDICTIVE HTML PATTERNS FOR DEVELOPER   OPTIMIZATION

Kimberly Perez Cruz¹, Saarthak Maheshwari¹, Thomas D. LaToza Ph. D
George Mason University; Fairfax, VA, USA

Abstract 

Each web developer is unique for their organizational and technical approach toward specific HTML coding tasks. Approaches taken by the programmer towards choosing certain elements – such as lists, tables, attributes, and tags – illustrate the programmer’s process, progression, and complexity of development. These web developers are always seeking to optimize their coding productivity. As a result, there exist concealed patterns between relationships of elements that can be revealed. These patterns demonstrate the programmer’s usage of monotonous and small regions of repetitive code, as well as hidden structural and stylistic patterns. A tool has been created to take code and categorize (tokenize) certain elements – based on HTML features – into individual groups called buckets. These groups, containing repetitive and analogous elements, are then organized into larger groups. These larger groups consist of various individual groups, and thus combine elemental frequencies and properties to depict larger-scale patterns via cross-examination of elements. The first level of the group hierarchy consists of simple elemental features obligatory to HTML programming. Individually, these elemental features provide minimal evidence of predictive patterns, but together can derive evidence of tag associations, parent to child relationships, relationships between element’s attributes and tags, relationships between the attribute values and parent tags, as well as many other associations containing visible repetitions. After a successful categorization of these features, the tool recognizes repetitive patterns and elements relationships using a specified algorithmic pattern recognition technique – as well as categorization methods - using the frequency of each pattern. This provides pertinent feedback to the developer regarding patterns that can allow for auto-complete of code, or the creation of certain templates. This thorough analyzation of elemental data provides developers with a better sense of their unique coding style, allowing for enhanced understanding of the configurational parallels and between facets of their code. 
